New blog post: Announcing APIv3 Beta (#75)
readthedocs/blog: api-v3-beta.rst

.. post:: August 8, 2019
   :tags: api, feature, reference
   :author: Manuel
   :location: BCN

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:

      Announcing API v3 Beta as invite-only status. Help us to make it *even* better!

========================
 Announcing API v3 Beta
========================

In the last months, we have been working on making our API better.
Considering the limitations of our current REST API v2,

> we decided to make a bigger step forward and create our new shiny API v3 with better and bigger features,

Reviewer: We should show off some of the queries here. Like, "get a list of my projects filtered by X" that will work for anyone logged in.

Author: I tried to archive this goal in the small list of new features. But it seems that it didn't work well.

I think I prefer to improve that list and make it work than add the feature in this paragraph. I'll try that.

> putting the focus on the use cases we already known.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
putting the focus on the user cases we heard about from existing users.
```

Our new API v3 has some big differences compared to the old one that make it more user-friendly and useful.

These differences includes:

* Authenticated only
* Token based authentication
* Read and Write
* Project's slug resource based

Allowing us to build new good features on top of them, like:

* Import a new project
* List all *my* projects
* Trigger a build for a specific version
* Check build status

> * Manage redirects and environment variables programmatically

Reviewer: This is not a great listing. It either needs a lot more information, or to be split into examples or links to the docs or something.

Author: I'm not really sure if adding a lot of more information will work here. It may make the blog post overloaded, in my opinion.

If linking each bullet to the proper section in our documentation works for you, I'd prefer that way. In that case, the post will still be concrete about "Announcing APIv3" mentioning the new features, and if the reader wants to try them out, their jump into reading its docs.

What do you think?

.. post:: August 8, 2019
   :tags: api, feature, reference
   :author: Manuel
   :location: BCN

.. meta::
   :description lang=en:

>       Announcing API v3 Beta as invite-only status. Help us to make it *even* better!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Help us to make Read the Docs *even* better by joining our new API v3 invite-only beta!
```

========================
 Announcing API v3 Beta
========================

In the last months, we have been working on making our API better.
Considering the limitations of our current REST API v2,
we decided to make a bigger step forward and create our new shiny API v3 with better and bigger features,

> putting the focus on the user cases we heard about from existing users.

Reviewer 2: use cases?

Author: Hrm... Interesting. Eric suggested to change this to `user cases` in https://github.com/readthedocs/blog/pull/75#discussion_r312178396

I thought it was "use cases", but... you may know better :)

Our new API v3 has some big differences compared to the old one that make it more user-friendly and useful.

These differences includes:

* Authenticated only
* Token based authentication
* Read and Write

> * Project's slug resource based

Author: I mean that it's all based under `/api/v3/<project-slug>/` and you don't have need to know the PK of the Project or Version. Basically, the main resources (Project and Version) are accessible via slug.

Builds, Redirects and Environment Variables are accessed by PK, though.

> 

Author: Do you mean more resources than in the previous APIv2? Or that I'm missing resources that I should mention here?

> 

Reviewer 3: Yeah, we give, or plan to give, much wider access to resources in API v3, compared to APIv2

> Allowing us to build new good features on top of them, like:

Author: I like the suggestion. It's clearer.

Although, I wouldn't use "will" since it's possible to do all these queries currently.

> Some examples of new queries and actions that are possible with the API v3 are:

What do you think?

* `Import a new project`_
* `List all my projects`_
* `Activate a version`_
* `Trigger a build for a specific version`_
* `Check build status`_

> * `Manage redirects`_ and `environment variables programmatically`_

Reviewer 3: If the transition sentence above is in future tense (future tense as we are announcing beta availability currently), these should match or it sounds funny.

Author: I'm not sure to understand this comment.

Please, read my previous comment, though.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is really important, it seems to read okay either way.

My point was that we're discussing actions/queries "that *will be* available" -- that is, future tense. The bullet list could match tense there (so "Activating a version", "Triggering a build", etc).

However, reading now, present tense works just as well for the bullet list items.

.. _Import a new project: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#project-create
.. _List all my projects: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#projects-list
.. _Activate a version: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#version-update
.. _Trigger a build for a specific version: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#build-triggering
.. _Check build status: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#build-details
.. _Manage redirects: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#redirects

> .. _environment variables programmatically: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html#environment-variables

Reviewer 2: I do wonder how appropriate intersphinx is for the blog. Well, I guess we'll find out.

If you want to know more about it,
please check out the full `APIv3 documentation`_.

.. _APIv3 documentation: https://docs.readthedocs.io/page/api/v3.html

> Invite-only Beta feature

Reviewer 3: Mixed case here. I prefer lowercase for headings ("Invite-only beta feature") over title case ("Invite-only Beta Feature"), but either is fine -- consistency with headings is more important.

Author: `Invite-only beta feature` is the way to go to keep consistency with other posts.

------------------------

> APIv3 is currently in an invite-only Beta state on our Community site, https://readthedocs.org.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
APIv3 is currently in an invite-only beta state on our community site, https://readthedocs.org.
```

In case you want to test it and give us feedback on it,

> please `email us`_ to get early access.

Reviewer 2: Should we mention any sort of timeline here like when we are going to open beta and finally releasing it?

Author: It would good to have that timeline, but we haven't discussed this yet.

I imagine that a 3 months window for this beta testing minimum. Although, we need to see how many early access requests we receive. We haven't heard anything from the people we share some tokens yet :disappointed:

> As a side note, I'd like to open it _before_ implementing "APIv3 Version 3" (https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/design/apiv3.html#version-3) and _after_ having "Version 2" all covered.

> We plan to add more features based on the feedback we receive from you to cover most of the common use cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Based on the feedback we receive from you, we plan to add more features to cover most of the common use cases.
```
